CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## Contributing to CVXPY
This document is a guide to contributing to CVXPY.

We welcome all contributions. You don't need to be an expert in optimization
to help out.

## Checklist
Contributions are made through
[pull requests](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/).
Before sending a pull request, make sure you do the following:
- Check that your code adheres to our [coding style](#code-style)
- Add our [license](#license) to new files
- [Write unit tests](#writing-unit-tests)
- Run the [unit tests](#running-unit-tests) and check that they're passing
- Run the [benchmarks](#benchmarks) to make sure your change does not introduce a regression

## Building CVXPY from source
You'll need to build CVXPY locally in order to start editing code. We recommend
that you do this in a fresh [virtual
environment](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/).

To install CVXPY from source, clone the Github repository, navigate to the
repository root, and run the following command:

```
python setup.py develop
```

## Contributing code
To contribute to CVXPY, send us pull requests. For those new to contributing,
check out Github's
[guide](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/).

Once you've made your pull request, a member of the CVXPY development team
will assign themselves to review it. You might have a few back-and-forths
with your reviewer before it is accepted, which is completely normal. Your
pull request will trigger continuous integration tests for many different
Python versions and different platforms. If these tests start failing, please
fix your code and send another commit, which will re-trigger the tests.

If you'd like to add a new feature to CVXPY, or a new example to our
[library](https://www.cvxpy.org/examples/index.html), please do propose your
change on a Github issue, to make sure that your priorities align with ours.

If you'd like to contribute code but don't know where to start, try one of the
following:
* Read the CVXPY source and enhance the documentation, or address TODOs
* Browse the [issue tracker](https://github.com/cvxpy/cvxpy/issues), and
  look for the issues tagged "help wanted".
* Polish the [example library](https://www.cvxpy.org/examples/index.html) or add new examples
* Add a [benchmark](https://github.com/cvxpy/cvxpy/tree/master/cvxpy/tests/test_benchmarks.py)

## License
Please add the following license to new files:

```
"""
Copyright, the CVXPY authors

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
"""
```

## Code style
We use [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/) and [isort](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/) to enforce our Python coding
style. Before sending us a pull request, navigate to the project root
and run

```
flake8 cvxpy/
isort .
```

to make sure that your changes abide by our style conventions. Please fix any
errors that are reported before sending the pull request.

Optionally, the package [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) can be installed to check these conventions automatically before every commit.
```
pip install pre-commit
pre-commit install
```

Note on isort: if you see files changed by isort that you did not actively make changes to as part of your PR, it is an indication that the config was not picked up correctly. See [issue 1653](https://github.com/cvxpy/cvxpy/issues/1653) for details.

## Writing unit tests
Most code changes will require new unit tests. (Even bug fixes require unit tests,
since the presence of bugs usually indicates insufficient tests.) CVXPY tests
live in the directory `cvxpy/tests`, which contains many files, each of which
contains many unit tests. When adding tests, try to find a file in which your
tests should belong; if you're testing a new feature, you might want to create
a new test file.

We use the standard Python [`unittest`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html)
framework for our tests. Tests are organized into classes, which inherit from
`BaseTest` (see `cvxpy/tests/base_test.py`). Every method beginning with `test_` is a unit
test.

## Running unit tests
We use `pytest` to run our unit tests, which you can install with `pip install pytest`.
To run all unit tests, `cd` into `cvxpy/tests` and run the following command:

```
pytest
````

To run tests in a specific file (e.g., `test_dgp.py`), use

```
pytest test_dgp.py
```

To run a specific test method (e.g., `TestDgp.test_product`), use

```
pytest test_dgp.py::TestDgp::test_product
```

Please make sure that your change doesn't cause any of the unit tests to fail.

`pytest` suppresses stdout by default. To see stdout, pass the `-s` flag
to `pytest`.

## Benchmarks
CVXPY has a few benchmarks in `cvxpy/tests/test_benchmarks.py`, which test
the time to canonicalize problems. Please run

```
pytest -s cvxpy/tests/test_benchmarks.py
```

with and without your change, to make sure no performance regressions are
introduced. If you are making a code contribution, please include the output of
the above command (with and without your change) in your pull request.

Commit message:

update contributing docs to reflect usage of ruff over flake8/isort

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Contributing to CVXPY
This document is a guide to contributing to CVXPY.

We welcome all contributions. You don't need to be an expert in optimization
to help out.

## Checklist
Contributions are made through
[pull requests](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/).
Before sending a pull request, make sure you do the following:
- Check that your code adheres to our [coding style](#code-style)
- Add our [license](#license) to new files
- [Write unit tests](#writing-unit-tests)
- Run the [unit tests](#running-unit-tests) and check that they're passing
- Run the [benchmarks](#benchmarks) to make sure your change does not introduce a regression

## Building CVXPY from source
You'll need to build CVXPY locally in order to start editing code. We recommend
that you do this in a fresh [virtual
environment](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/).

To install CVXPY from source, clone the Github repository, navigate to the
repository root, and run the following command:

```
python setup.py develop
```

## Contributing code
To contribute to CVXPY, send us pull requests. For those new to contributing,
check out Github's
[guide](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/).

Once you've made your pull request, a member of the CVXPY development team
will assign themselves to review it. You might have a few back-and-forths
with your reviewer before it is accepted, which is completely normal. Your
pull request will trigger continuous integration tests for many different
Python versions and different platforms. If these tests start failing, please
fix your code and send another commit, which will re-trigger the tests.

If you'd like to add a new feature to CVXPY, or a new example to our
[library](https://www.cvxpy.org/examples/index.html), please do propose your
change on a Github issue, to make sure that your priorities align with ours.

If you'd like to contribute code but don't know where to start, try one of the
following:
* Read the CVXPY source and enhance the documentation, or address TODOs
* Browse the [issue tracker](https://github.com/cvxpy/cvxpy/issues), and
  look for the issues tagged "help wanted".
* Polish the [example library](https://www.cvxpy.org/examples/index.html) or add new examples
* Add a [benchmark](https://github.com/cvxpy/cvxpy/tree/master/cvxpy/tests/test_benchmarks.py)

## License
Please add the following license to new files:

```
"""
Copyright, the CVXPY authors

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
"""
```

## Code style
We use [ruff](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/) to enforce our Python coding style. Before sending us a pull request, navigate to the project root and run

```
pip install ruff
ruff check cvxpy
```

to make sure that your changes abide by our style conventions. Please fix any errors that are reported before sending the pull request.

Optionally, the package [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) can be installed to check these conventions automatically before every commit.
```
pip install pre-commit
pre-commit install
```

Note on isort: if you see files changed by isort that you did not actively make changes to as part of your PR, it is an indication that the config was not picked up correctly. See [issue 1653](https://github.com/cvxpy/cvxpy/issues/1653) for details.

## Writing unit tests
Most code changes will require new unit tests. (Even bug fixes require unit tests,
since the presence of bugs usually indicates insufficient tests.) CVXPY tests
live in the directory `cvxpy/tests`, which contains many files, each of which
contains many unit tests. When adding tests, try to find a file in which your
tests should belong; if you're testing a new feature, you might want to create
a new test file.

We use the standard Python [`unittest`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html)
framework for our tests. Tests are organized into classes, which inherit from
`BaseTest` (see `cvxpy/tests/base_test.py`). Every method beginning with `test_` is a unit
test.

## Running unit tests
We use `pytest` to run our unit tests, which you can install with `pip install pytest`.
To run all unit tests, `cd` into `cvxpy/tests` and run the following command:

```
pytest
````

To run tests in a specific file (e.g., `test_dgp.py`), use

```
pytest test_dgp.py
```

To run a specific test method (e.g., `TestDgp.test_product`), use

```
pytest test_dgp.py::TestDgp::test_product
```

Please make sure that your change doesn't cause any of the unit tests to fail.

`pytest` suppresses stdout by default. To see stdout, pass the `-s` flag
to `pytest`.

## Benchmarks
CVXPY has a few benchmarks in `cvxpy/tests/test_benchmarks.py`, which test
the time to canonicalize problems. Please run

```
pytest -s cvxpy/tests/test_benchmarks.py
```

with and without your change, to make sure no performance regressions are
introduced. If you are making a code contribution, please include the output of
the above command (with and without your change) in your pull request.
