doc/source/tutorial/constraints/index.rst, before:

Advanced Constraints
====================

.. _attributes:

Attributes
----------

Variables and parameters can be created with attributes specifying additional properties.
For example, ``Variable(nonneg=True)`` is a scalar variable constrained to be nonnegative.
Similarly, ``Parameter(nonpos=True)`` is a scalar parameter constrained to be nonpositive.
The full constructor for :py:class:`Leaf <cvxpy.expressions.leaf.Leaf>` (the parent class
of :py:class:`Variable <cvxpy.expressions.variable.Variable>` and
:py:class:`Parameter <cvxpy.expressions.constants.parameter.Parameter>`) is given below.

.. function:: Leaf(shape=None, value=None, nonneg=False, nonpos=False, complex=False, imag=False, symmetric=False, diag=False, PSD=False, NSD=False, hermitian=False, boolean=False, integer=False, sparsity=None, pos=False, neg=False)

    Creates a Leaf object (e.g., Variable or Parameter).
    Only one attribute can be active (set to True).

    :param shape: The variable dimensions, defaults to scalar (0D).
    :type shape: tuple or int
    :param value: A value to assign to the variable.
    :type value: numeric type
    :param nonneg: Is the variable constrained to be nonnegative?
    :type nonneg: bool
    :param nonpos: Is the variable constrained to be nonpositive?
    :type nonpos: bool
    :param complex: Is the variable constrained to be complex-valued?
    :type complex: bool
    :param imag: Is the variable constrained to be imaginary?
    :type imag: bool
    :param symmetric: Is the variable constrained to be symmetric?
    :type symmetric: bool
    :param diag: Is the variable constrained to be diagonal?
    :type diag: bool
    :param PSD: Is the variable constrained to be symmetric positive semidefinite?
    :type PSD: bool
    :param NSD: Is the variable constrained to be symmetric negative semidefinite?
    :type NSD: bool
    :param hermitian: Is the variable constrained to be Hermitian?
    :type hermitian: bool
    :param boolean:
        Is the variable boolean (i.e., 0 or 1)? True, which constrains
        the entire variable to be boolean, False, or a list of
        indices which should be constrained as boolean, where each
        index is a tuple of length exactly equal to the
        length of shape.
    :type boolean: bool or list of tuple
    :param integer: Is the variable integer? The semantics are the same as the boolean argument.
    :type integer: bool or list of tuple
    :param sparsity: Fixed sparsity pattern for the variable.
    :type sparsity: list of tuplewith
    :param pos: Is the variable constrained to be positive?
    :type pos: bool
    :param neg: Is the variable constrained to be negative?
    :type neg: bool
    :param bounds: Is the variable bounded below and/or above?
    :type bounds: iterable of length two

The ``value`` field of Variables and Parameters can be assigned a value after construction,
but the assigned value must satisfy the object attributes.
A Euclidean projection onto the set defined by the attributes is given by the
:py:meth:`project <cvxpy.expressions.leaf.Leaf.project>` method.

.. code:: python

    p = Parameter(nonneg=True)
    try:
        p.value = -1
    except Exception as e:
        print(e)

    print("Projection:", p.project(-1))

::

    Parameter value must be nonnegative.
    Projection: 0.0

A sensible idiom for assigning values to leaves is
:py:meth:`leaf.value = leaf.project(val) <cvxpy.expressions.leaf.Leaf.project>`,
ensuring that the assigned value satisfies the leaf's properties.
A slightly more efficient variant is
:py:meth:`leaf.project_and_assign(val) <cvxpy.expressions.leaf.Leaf.project_and_assign>`,
which projects and assigns the value directly, without additionally checking
that the value satisfies the leaf's properties.  In most cases ``project`` and
checking that a value satisfies a leaf's properties are cheap operations (i.e.,
:math:`O(n)`), but for symmetric positive semidefinite or negative semidefinite
leaves, the operations compute an eigenvalue decomposition.

Many attributes, such as nonnegativity and symmetry, can be easily specified with constraints.
What is the advantage then of specifying attributes in a variable?
The main benefit is that specifying attributes enables more fine-grained DCP analysis.
For example, creating a variable ``x`` via ``x = Variable(nonpos=True)`` informs the DCP analyzer that ``x`` is nonpositive.
Creating the variable ``x`` via ``x = Variable()`` and adding the constraint ``x >= 0`` separately does not provide any information
about the sign of ``x`` to the DCP analyzer.

.. important::
    One downside of using attributes over explicit constraints is that dual variables will not be recorded. Dual variable values
    are only recorded for explicit constraints.

.. _sparsity:

Sparsity Attribute
------------------

.. versionadded:: 1.6

In some optimization problems, it is beneficial to define a sparsity attribute for variables. This attribute defines the subset of
variables that you would like to optimize over. In the example below, the problem is optimizing over the set of upper triangular matrices.

.. code:: python

    # Creates a upper triangular sparse variable
    X = cp.Variable((10, 10), sparsity=np.triu_indices(n=10))

    prob = cp.Minimize(cp.norm(X) + cp.sum(X))

The sparsity attribute avoids defining unnecessary variables and can have great performance improvements both in terms of memory and computation,
all while maintaining the desired shape of your expression. Another way to define the sparsity attribute is using `np.where <https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.where.html>`_
with a condition on given problem data. In the example below, the sparse variable represents all the entries in ``data`` that are greater than ``0.5``. 

.. code:: python

    # define problem data (adapt to your use-case)
    data = np.random.randn(10, 10)
    # Creates a sparse variable given condition on data
    X = cp.Variable((10, 10), sparsity=np.where(data > 0.5))

    prob = cp.Minimize(cp.norm(X) + cp.sum(X))

Finally, you can also define the sparsity attribute manually. The input to the attribute needs to conform to the index format
as defined in `np.indices <https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.indices.html>`_.

.. code:: python

    # Creates a sparse variable manually
    # The first tuple represent row indices and the second column indices
    # This is equivalent to calling np.where(data == 1) on the following matrix
    # [[1, 0, 0],
    #  [0, 0, 1],
    #  [0, 0, 0]]
    X = cp.Variable((3, 3), sparsity=[(0, 1), (0, 2)])

    prob = cp.Minimize(cp.norm(X) + cp.sum(X))

.. warning::

    The sparsity attribute is not yet supported for setting the value of a variable or parameter.
    In a future release, we plan to have a projection method for sparsity attributes using a custom datatype
    based on PyTorch's `sparse_coo format <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.sparse_coo_tensor.html>`_.

.. _semidefinite:

Semidefinite matrices
----------------------

Many convex optimization problems involve constraining matrices to be positive or negative semidefinite (e.g., SDPs).
You can do this in CVXPY in two ways.
The first way is to use
``Variable((n, n), PSD=True)`` to create an ``n`` by ``n`` variable constrained to be symmetric and positive semidefinite. For example,

.. code:: python

    # Creates a 100 by 100 positive semidefinite variable.
    X = cp.Variable((100, 100), PSD=True)

    # You can use X anywhere you would use
    # a normal CVXPY variable.
    obj = cp.Minimize(cp.norm(X) + cp.sum(X))

The second way is to create a positive semidefinite cone constraint using the ``>>`` or ``<<`` operator.
If ``X`` and ``Y`` are ``n`` by ``n`` variables,
the constraint ``X >> Y`` means that :math:`z^T(X - Y)z \geq 0`, for all :math:`z \in \mathcal{R}^n`.
In other words, :math:`(X - Y) + (X - Y)^T` is positive semidefinite.
The constraint does not require that ``X`` and ``Y`` be symmetric.
Both sides of a postive semidefinite cone constraint must be square matrices and affine.

The following code shows how to constrain matrix expressions to be positive or negative
semidefinite (but not necessarily symmetric).

.. code:: python

    # expr1 must be positive semidefinite.
    constr1 = (expr1 >> 0)

    # expr2 must be negative semidefinite.
    constr2 = (expr2 << 0)

To constrain a matrix expression to be symmetric, simply write

.. code:: python

    # expr must be symmetric.
    constr = (expr == expr.T)

You can also use ``Variable((n, n), symmetric=True)`` to create an ``n`` by ``n`` variable constrained to be symmetric.
The difference between specifying that a variable is symmetric via attributes and adding the constraint ``X == X.T`` is that
attributes are parsed for DCP information and a symmetric variable is defined over the (lower dimensional) vector space of symmetric matrices.

.. _mip:

Mixed-integer programs
----------------------

In mixed-integer programs, certain variables are constrained to be boolean (i.e., 0 or 1) or integer valued.
You can construct mixed-integer programs by creating variables with the attribute that they have only boolean or integer valued entries:

.. code:: python

    # Creates a 10-vector constrained to have boolean valued entries.
    x = cp.Variable(10, boolean=True)

    # expr1 must be boolean valued.
    constr1 = (expr1 == x)

    # Creates a 5 by 7 matrix constrained to have integer valued entries.
    Z = cp.Variable((5, 7), integer=True)

    # expr2 must be integer valued.
    constr2 = (expr2 == Z)

CVXPY provides interfaces to many mixed-integer solvers, including open source and commercial solvers.
For licensing reasons, CVXPY does not install any of the preferred solvers by default.

The preferred open source mixed-integer solvers in CVXPY are HiGHS, GLPK_MI, CBC and SCIP. The CVXOPT
python package provides CVXPY with access to GLPK_MI; CVXOPT can be installed by running
``pip install cvxopt`` in your command line or terminal. SCIP supports nonlinear models, but
GLPK_MI and CBC do not.

If you need to solve a large mixed-integer problem quickly, or if you have a nonlinear mixed-integer
model that is challenging for SCIP or HiGHS, then you will need to use a commercial solver such as CPLEX,
GUROBI, XPRESS, MOSEK, or COPT. Commercial solvers require licenses to run. CPLEX, GUROBI, and MOSEK
provide free licenses to those in academia (both students and faculty), as well as trial versions to those outside academia.

CPLEX Free Edition is available at no cost regardless of academic status, however it still requires
online registration, and it's limited to problems with at most 1000 variables and 1000 constraints.
XPRESS has a free community edition which does not require registration, however it is limited
to problems where the sum of variables count and constraint count does not exceed 5000.
COPT also has a free community edition that is limited to problems with at most 2000 variables
and 2000 constraints.

.. note::
   If you develop an open-source mixed-integer solver with a permissive license such
   as Apache 2.0, and you're interested in incorporating your solver into CVXPY's default installation,
   please reach out to us at our `GitHub issues <https://github.com/cvxpy/cvxpy/issues>`_. We are
   particularly interested in incorporating a simple mixed-integer SOCP solver.

.. _complex:

Complex valued expressions
--------------------------

By default variables and parameters are real valued.
Complex valued variables and parameters can be created by setting the attribute ``complex=True``.
Similarly, purely imaginary variables and parameters can be created by setting the attributes ``imag=True``.
Expressions containing complex variables, parameters, or constants may be complex valued.
The functions ``is_real``, ``is_complex``, and ``is_imag`` return whether an expression is purely real, complex, or purely imaginary, respectively.

.. code:: python

   # A complex valued variable.
   x = cp.Variable(complex=True)
   # A purely imaginary parameter.
   p = cp.Parameter(imag=True)

   print("p.is_imag() = ", p.is_imag())
   print("(x + 2).is_real() = ", (x + 2).is_real())

::

   p.is_imag() = True
   (x + 2).is_real() = False

The top-level expressions in the problem objective must be real valued,
but subexpressions may be complex.
Arithmetic and all linear atoms are defined for complex expressions.
The nonlinear atoms ``abs`` and all norms except ``norm(X, p)`` for ``p < 1`` are also defined for complex expressions.
All atoms whose domain is symmetric matrices are defined for Hermitian matrices.
Similarly, the atoms ``quad_form(x, P)`` and ``matrix_frac(x, P)`` are defined for complex ``x`` and Hermitian ``P``.
All constraints are defined for complex expressions.

The following additional atoms are provided for working with complex expressions:

* ``real(expr)`` gives the real part of ``expr``.
* ``imag(expr)`` gives the imaginary part of ``expr`` (i.e., ``expr = real(expr) + 1j*imag(expr)``).
* ``conj(expr)`` gives the complex conjugate of ``expr``.
* ``expr.H`` gives the Hermitian (conjugate) transpose of ``expr``.

Commit message:

Docs on reading and writing sparse values

doc/source/tutorial/constraints/index.rst, after:

Advanced Constraints
====================

.. _attributes:

Attributes
----------

Variables and parameters can be created with attributes specifying additional properties.
For example, ``Variable(nonneg=True)`` is a scalar variable constrained to be nonnegative.
Similarly, ``Parameter(nonpos=True)`` is a scalar parameter constrained to be nonpositive.
The full constructor for :py:class:`Leaf <cvxpy.expressions.leaf.Leaf>` (the parent class
of :py:class:`Variable <cvxpy.expressions.variable.Variable>` and
:py:class:`Parameter <cvxpy.expressions.constants.parameter.Parameter>`) is given below.

.. function:: Leaf(shape=None, value=None, nonneg=False, nonpos=False, complex=False, imag=False, symmetric=False, diag=False, PSD=False, NSD=False, hermitian=False, boolean=False, integer=False, sparsity=None, pos=False, neg=False)

    Creates a Leaf object (e.g., Variable or Parameter).
    Only one attribute can be active (set to True).

    :param shape: The variable dimensions, defaults to scalar (0D).
    :type shape: tuple or int
    :param value: A value to assign to the variable.
    :type value: numeric type
    :param nonneg: Is the variable constrained to be nonnegative?
    :type nonneg: bool
    :param nonpos: Is the variable constrained to be nonpositive?
    :type nonpos: bool
    :param complex: Is the variable constrained to be complex-valued?
    :type complex: bool
    :param imag: Is the variable constrained to be imaginary?
    :type imag: bool
    :param symmetric: Is the variable constrained to be symmetric?
    :type symmetric: bool
    :param diag: Is the variable constrained to be diagonal?
    :type diag: bool
    :param PSD: Is the variable constrained to be symmetric positive semidefinite?
    :type PSD: bool
    :param NSD: Is the variable constrained to be symmetric negative semidefinite?
    :type NSD: bool
    :param hermitian: Is the variable constrained to be Hermitian?
    :type hermitian: bool
    :param boolean:
        Is the variable boolean (i.e., 0 or 1)? True, which constrains
        the entire variable to be boolean, False, or a list of
        indices which should be constrained as boolean, where each
        index is a tuple of length exactly equal to the
        length of shape.
    :type boolean: bool or list of tuple
    :param integer: Is the variable integer? The semantics are the same as the boolean argument.
    :type integer: bool or list of tuple
    :param sparsity: Fixed sparsity pattern for the variable.
    :type sparsity: list of tuplewith
    :param pos: Is the variable constrained to be positive?
    :type pos: bool
    :param neg: Is the variable constrained to be negative?
    :type neg: bool
    :param bounds: Is the variable bounded below and/or above?
    :type bounds: iterable of length two

The ``value`` field of Variables and Parameters can be assigned a value after construction,
but the assigned value must satisfy the object attributes.
A Euclidean projection onto the set defined by the attributes is given by the
:py:meth:`project <cvxpy.expressions.leaf.Leaf.project>` method.

.. code:: python

    p = Parameter(nonneg=True)
    try:
        p.value = -1
    except Exception as e:
        print(e)

    print("Projection:", p.project(-1))

::

    Parameter value must be nonnegative.
    Projection: 0.0

A sensible idiom for assigning values to leaves is
:py:meth:`leaf.value = leaf.project(val) <cvxpy.expressions.leaf.Leaf.project>`,
ensuring that the assigned value satisfies the leaf's properties.
A slightly more efficient variant is
:py:meth:`leaf.project_and_assign(val) <cvxpy.expressions.leaf.Leaf.project_and_assign>`,
which projects and assigns the value directly, without additionally checking
that the value satisfies the leaf's properties.  In most cases ``project`` and
checking that a value satisfies a leaf's properties are cheap operations (i.e.,
:math:`O(n)`), but for symmetric positive semidefinite or negative semidefinite
leaves, the operations compute an eigenvalue decomposition.

Many attributes, such as nonnegativity and symmetry, can be easily specified with constraints.
What is the advantage then of specifying attributes in a variable?
The main benefit is that specifying attributes enables more fine-grained DCP analysis.
For example, creating a variable ``x`` via ``x = Variable(nonpos=True)`` informs the DCP analyzer that ``x`` is nonpositive.
Creating the variable ``x`` via ``x = Variable()`` and adding the constraint ``x >= 0`` separately does not provide any information
about the sign of ``x`` to the DCP analyzer.

.. important::
    One downside of using attributes over explicit constraints is that dual variables will not be recorded. Dual variable values
    are only recorded for explicit constraints.

.. _sparsity:

Sparsity Attribute
------------------

.. versionadded:: 1.6

In some optimization problems, it is beneficial to define a sparsity attribute for variables. This attribute defines the subset of
variables that you would like to optimize over. In the example below, the problem is optimizing over the set of upper triangular matrices.

.. code:: python

    # Creates a upper triangular sparse variable
    X = cp.Variable((10, 10), sparsity=np.triu_indices(n=10))

    prob = cp.Minimize(cp.norm(X) + cp.sum(X))

The sparsity attribute avoids defining unnecessary variables and can have great performance improvements both in terms of memory and computation,
all while maintaining the desired shape of your expression. Another way to define the sparsity attribute is using `np.where <https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.where.html>`_
with a condition on given problem data. In the example below, the sparse variable represents all the entries in ``data`` that are greater than ``0.5``. 

.. code:: python

    # define problem data (adapt to your use-case)
    data = np.random.randn(10, 10)
    # Creates a sparse variable given condition on data
    X = cp.Variable((10, 10), sparsity=np.where(data > 0.5))

    prob = cp.Minimize(cp.norm(X) + cp.sum(X))

Finally, you can also define the sparsity attribute manually. The input to the attribute needs to conform to the index format
as defined in `np.indices <https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.indices.html>`_.

.. code:: python

    # Creates a sparse variable manually
    # The first tuple represent row indices and the second column indices
    # This is equivalent to calling np.where(data == 1) on the following matrix
    # [[1, 0, 0],
    #  [0, 0, 1],
    #  [0, 0, 0]]
    X = cp.Variable((3, 3), sparsity=[(0, 1), (0, 2)])

    prob = cp.Minimize(cp.norm(X) + cp.sum(X))

Reading and writing the value of a variable or parameter with the sparsity attribute:

To avoid storing entries that are known to be zero, we provide the ``.value_sparse`` field,
which stores only the nonzero entries as a ``scipy.sparse.coo_array``.
For details on this data structure, please see the `scipy documentation <https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.sparse.coo_array.html>`_.
When passing a value, it is expected to be a ``scipy.sparse.coo_array``.

.. code:: python

    # Use the sparsity pattern for both the parameter and its assigned value
    sparsity = ([0, 1, 2, 2], [0, 2, 1, 2])
    P = cp.Parameter((3, 3), sparsity=sparsity)
    P.value_sparse = coo_array(([1.3, 2.1, 0.7, 3.2], sparsity))

Similarly, the value of a sparse variable or parameter is read via ``.value_sparse``.

.. code:: python

    # Construct a problem with a sparse variable, solve, and read its sparse value
    X = cp.Variable((3, 3), sparsity=[(0, 1), (0, 2)])
    prob = cp.Problem(cp.Minimize(cp.sum(X)), [...])
    prob.solve()
    print(X.value_sparse)

.. _semidefinite:

Semidefinite matrices
----------------------

Many convex optimization problems involve constraining matrices to be positive or negative semidefinite (e.g., SDPs).
You can do this in CVXPY in two ways.
The first way is to use
``Variable((n, n), PSD=True)`` to create an ``n`` by ``n`` variable constrained to be symmetric and positive semidefinite. For example,

.. code:: python

    # Creates a 100 by 100 positive semidefinite variable.
    X = cp.Variable((100, 100), PSD=True)

    # You can use X anywhere you would use
    # a normal CVXPY variable.
    obj = cp.Minimize(cp.norm(X) + cp.sum(X))

The second way is to create a positive semidefinite cone constraint using the ``>>`` or ``<<`` operator.
If ``X`` and ``Y`` are ``n`` by ``n`` variables,
the constraint ``X >> Y`` means that :math:`z^T(X - Y)z \geq 0`, for all :math:`z \in \mathcal{R}^n`.
In other words, :math:`(X - Y) + (X - Y)^T` is positive semidefinite.
The constraint does not require that ``X`` and ``Y`` be symmetric.
Both sides of a postive semidefinite cone constraint must be square matrices and affine.

The following code shows how to constrain matrix expressions to be positive or negative
semidefinite (but not necessarily symmetric).

.. code:: python

    # expr1 must be positive semidefinite.
    constr1 = (expr1 >> 0)

    # expr2 must be negative semidefinite.
    constr2 = (expr2 << 0)

To constrain a matrix expression to be symmetric, simply write

.. code:: python

    # expr must be symmetric.
    constr = (expr == expr.T)

You can also use ``Variable((n, n), symmetric=True)`` to create an ``n`` by ``n`` variable constrained to be symmetric.
The difference between specifying that a variable is symmetric via attributes and adding the constraint ``X == X.T`` is that
attributes are parsed for DCP information and a symmetric variable is defined over the (lower dimensional) vector space of symmetric matrices.

.. _mip:

Mixed-integer programs
----------------------

In mixed-integer programs, certain variables are constrained to be boolean (i.e., 0 or 1) or integer valued.
You can construct mixed-integer programs by creating variables with the attribute that they have only boolean or integer valued entries:

.. code:: python

    # Creates a 10-vector constrained to have boolean valued entries.
    x = cp.Variable(10, boolean=True)

    # expr1 must be boolean valued.
    constr1 = (expr1 == x)

    # Creates a 5 by 7 matrix constrained to have integer valued entries.
    Z = cp.Variable((5, 7), integer=True)

    # expr2 must be integer valued.
    constr2 = (expr2 == Z)

CVXPY provides interfaces to many mixed-integer solvers, including open source and commercial solvers.
For licensing reasons, CVXPY does not install any of the preferred solvers by default.

The preferred open source mixed-integer solvers in CVXPY are HiGHS, GLPK_MI, CBC and SCIP. The CVXOPT
python package provides CVXPY with access to GLPK_MI; CVXOPT can be installed by running
``pip install cvxopt`` in your command line or terminal. SCIP supports nonlinear models, but
GLPK_MI and CBC do not.

If you need to solve a large mixed-integer problem quickly, or if you have a nonlinear mixed-integer
model that is challenging for SCIP or HiGHS, then you will need to use a commercial solver such as CPLEX,
GUROBI, XPRESS, MOSEK, or COPT. Commercial solvers require licenses to run. CPLEX, GUROBI, and MOSEK
provide free licenses to those in academia (both students and faculty), as well as trial versions to those outside academia.

CPLEX Free Edition is available at no cost regardless of academic status, however it still requires
online registration, and it's limited to problems with at most 1000 variables and 1000 constraints.
XPRESS has a free community edition which does not require registration, however it is limited
to problems where the sum of variables count and constraint count does not exceed 5000.
COPT also has a free community edition that is limited to problems with at most 2000 variables
and 2000 constraints.

.. note::
   If you develop an open-source mixed-integer solver with a permissive license such
   as Apache 2.0, and you're interested in incorporating your solver into CVXPY's default installation,
   please reach out to us at our `GitHub issues <https://github.com/cvxpy/cvxpy/issues>`_. We are
   particularly interested in incorporating a simple mixed-integer SOCP solver.

.. _complex:

Complex valued expressions
--------------------------

By default variables and parameters are real valued.
Complex valued variables and parameters can be created by setting the attribute ``complex=True``.
Similarly, purely imaginary variables and parameters can be created by setting the attributes ``imag=True``.
Expressions containing complex variables, parameters, or constants may be complex valued.
The functions ``is_real``, ``is_complex``, and ``is_imag`` return whether an expression is purely real, complex, or purely imaginary, respectively.

.. code:: python

   # A complex valued variable.
   x = cp.Variable(complex=True)
   # A purely imaginary parameter.
   p = cp.Parameter(imag=True)

   print("p.is_imag() = ", p.is_imag())
   print("(x + 2).is_real() = ", (x + 2).is_real())

::

   p.is_imag() = True
   (x + 2).is_real() = False

The top-level expressions in the problem objective must be real valued,
but subexpressions may be complex.
Arithmetic and all linear atoms are defined for complex expressions.
The nonlinear atoms ``abs`` and all norms except ``norm(X, p)`` for ``p < 1`` are also defined for complex expressions.
All atoms whose domain is symmetric matrices are defined for Hermitian matrices.
Similarly, the atoms ``quad_form(x, P)`` and ``matrix_frac(x, P)`` are defined for complex ``x`` and Hermitian ``P``.
All constraints are defined for complex expressions.

The following additional atoms are provided for working with complex expressions:

* ``real(expr)`` gives the real part of ``expr``.
* ``imag(expr)`` gives the imaginary part of ``expr`` (i.e., ``expr = real(expr) + 1j*imag(expr)``).
* ``conj(expr)`` gives the complex conjugate of ``expr``.
* ``expr.H`` gives the Hermitian (conjugate) transpose of ``expr``.
